content/pages/02-research-profile.rst, before:

Research Profile
################
:date: 2020-10-24 22:13:35
:author: ankur
:slug: 02-research-profile

I'm a computer science major that has migrated over to computational neuroscience over the years.
I am interested in various areas of neuroscience---structural, synaptic, homeostatic plasticity; cortical and cerebellar processing; tools for neural modelling at various levels of detail and standardisation of computational models, and also the plethora of tools for data analysis.

I prefer Python to Matlab, and `Open source software to proprietary tools <http://opensourceforneuroscience.org/>`__.

-----

Work
----

Research Fellow at the Silver Lab at UCL
==========================================

(March 2020 - )

I am currently a research fellow at the `Silver Lab <https://silverlab.org>`__ at `University College London <https://ucl.ac.uk>`__.
Apart from the research projects that are ongoing at the research group, I also focus on the development of the `Open Source Brain <https://opensourcebrain.org>`__ platform and associated technologies.


Visiting Lecturer at the University of Hertfordshire
====================================================

(2014 - 2020)

I was a visiting lecturer at the School of Engineering, Computer Science, Physics, Astronomy, and Mathematics at UH.
I taught on modules related to computing, and supervised undergraduate and post-graduate projects.

-----

Education
----------

Ph.D. in Computational Neuroscience: UH Biocomputation
=======================================================

(2014 - 2020)

I earned my Ph.D. in Computational Neuroscience at the `Biocomputation group <http://biocomputation.herts.ac.uk>`__ at the `University of Hertfordshire <http://www.herts.ac.uk/>`__.

| Primary supervisor: `Professor Volker Steuber`_
| Secondary supervisors: `Dr Christoph Metzner`_, `Professor Rod Adams`_, `Dr Neil Davey`_, `Professor Michael Schmuker`_.
|

Thesis: Structural Plasticity and Associative Memory in Balanced Neural Networks With Spike-Time Dependent Inhibitory Plasticity.

Masters by Research: UTS, Sydney
=================================

(2012 - 2014)

I completed my ME (by research) at the `University of Technology, Sydney <http://www.uts.edu.au/>`__. I studied and modelled neuron sets that are related to navigation in the mammalian brain using the `ROS robotic framework <http://www.ros.org/>`__. I worked on head direction cells, place cells, grid cells, and boundary cells.

Supervisor: `Dr Jack Wang`_

Thesis: `Bio inspired navigation in a mobile dynamic environment`_

-----

Volunteering
-------------


OCNS
=====

(2019 - 2021)

I am a member of the `Board of Directors for Organisation for Computational
Neuroscience (OCNS) <https://www.cnsorg.org/board-of-directors>`__, where I am
in-charge of the web resources used by OCNS.

If you see an issue with any of the OCNS web resources, please let me know (or
file an issue on Github `here
<https://github.com/OCNS/Website/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=bug_report.md&title=>`__)

-----

NeuroFedora: Free Software for Free Neuroscience
=================================================

I am part of the team that builds and maintains `NeuroFedora`_. Our goal is to
provide a large set of neuroscience software to users in an easy, ready to use
way---via the Fedora_ Linux distribution.

-----

Resume
------

My resume can be found `here`_.

Publications
------------

My publications can be seen `on a separate page <03-publications.html>`_.

.. _Professor Volker Steuber: http://homepages.stca.herts.ac.uk/~comqvs/
.. _Dr Christoph Metzner: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Christoph_Metzner
.. _Professor Rod Adams: https://researchprofiles.herts.ac.uk/portal/en/persons/roderick-adams(b275ad07-733e-48c9-b71d-9fd70809843a).html
.. _Dr Neil Davey: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=B64Q_HgAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
.. _Professor Michael Schmuker: https://biomachinelearning.net/
.. _Bio inspired navigation in a mobile dynamic environment: https://opus.lib.uts.edu.au/research/handle/10453/36990?show=full
.. _Dr Jack Wang: http://www.uts.edu.au/staff/jianguo.wang
.. _here: https://ankursinha.in/files/AnkurSinha-resume.pdf
.. _NeuroFedora: https://neuro.fedoraproject.org
.. _Fedora: https://getfedora.org

Commit message:

enh: add software wg to profile page

content/pages/02-research-profile.rst, after:

Research Profile
################
:date: 2020-10-24 22:13:35
:author: ankur
:slug: 02-research-profile

I'm a computer science major that has migrated over to computational neuroscience over the years.
I am interested in various areas of neuroscience---structural, synaptic, homeostatic plasticity; cortical and cerebellar processing; tools for neural modelling at various levels of detail and standardisation of computational models, and also the plethora of tools for data analysis.

I prefer Python to Matlab, and `Open source software to proprietary tools <http://opensourceforneuroscience.org/>`__.

-----

Work
----

Research Fellow at the Silver Lab at UCL
==========================================

(March 2020 - )

I am currently a research fellow at the `Silver Lab <https://silverlab.org>`__ at `University College London <https://ucl.ac.uk>`__.
Apart from the research projects that are ongoing at the research group, I also focus on the development of the `Open Source Brain <https://opensourcebrain.org>`__ platform and associated technologies.


Visiting Lecturer at the University of Hertfordshire
====================================================

(2014 - 2020)

I was a visiting lecturer at the School of Engineering, Computer Science, Physics, Astronomy, and Mathematics at UH.
I taught on modules related to computing, and supervised undergraduate and post-graduate projects.

-----

Education
----------

Ph.D. in Computational Neuroscience: UH Biocomputation
=======================================================

(2014 - 2020)

I earned my Ph.D. in Computational Neuroscience at the `Biocomputation group <http://biocomputation.herts.ac.uk>`__ at the `University of Hertfordshire <http://www.herts.ac.uk/>`__.

| Primary supervisor: `Professor Volker Steuber`_
| Secondary supervisors: `Dr Christoph Metzner`_, `Professor Rod Adams`_, `Dr Neil Davey`_, `Professor Michael Schmuker`_.
|

Thesis: Structural Plasticity and Associative Memory in Balanced Neural Networks With Spike-Time Dependent Inhibitory Plasticity.

Masters by Research: UTS, Sydney
=================================

(2012 - 2014)

I completed my ME (by research) at the `University of Technology, Sydney <http://www.uts.edu.au/>`__. I studied and modelled neuron sets that are related to navigation in the mammalian brain using the `ROS robotic framework <http://www.ros.org/>`__. I worked on head direction cells, place cells, grid cells, and boundary cells.

Supervisor: `Dr Jack Wang`_

Thesis: `Bio inspired navigation in a mobile dynamic environment`_

-----

Volunteering
-------------


OCNS
=====

(2019 - 2021)

I am a member of the `Board of Directors for Organisation for Computational
Neuroscience (OCNS) <https://www.cnsorg.org/board-of-directors>`__, where I am
in-charge of the web resources used by OCNS.

If you see an issue with any of the OCNS web resources, please let me know (or
file an issue on Github `here
<https://github.com/OCNS/Website/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=bug_report.md&title=>`__)

-----

INCF/OCNS Software working group
================================

I am a member of the `INCF/OCNS Software working group <https://ocns.github.io/SoftwareWG/>`__.
We focus on all things related to the software used in Neuroscience---development, training, dissemination, and so on.
Please, `join us <https://github.com/OCNS/SoftwareWG/discussions/12>`__.

-----

NeuroFedora: Free Software for Free Neuroscience
=================================================

I am part of the team that builds and maintains `NeuroFedora`_. Our goal is to
provide a large set of neuroscience software to users in an easy, ready to use
way---via the Fedora_ Linux distribution.

-----

Resume
------

My resume can be found `here`_.

Publications
------------

My publications can be seen `on a separate page <03-publications.html>`_.

.. _Professor Volker Steuber: http://homepages.stca.herts.ac.uk/~comqvs/
.. _Dr Christoph Metzner: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Christoph_Metzner
.. _Professor Rod Adams: https://researchprofiles.herts.ac.uk/portal/en/persons/roderick-adams(b275ad07-733e-48c9-b71d-9fd70809843a).html
.. _Dr Neil Davey: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=B64Q_HgAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao
.. _Professor Michael Schmuker: https://biomachinelearning.net/
.. _Bio inspired navigation in a mobile dynamic environment: https://opus.lib.uts.edu.au/research/handle/10453/36990?show=full
.. _Dr Jack Wang: http://www.uts.edu.au/staff/jianguo.wang
.. _here: https://ankursinha.in/files/AnkurSinha-resume.pdf
.. _NeuroFedora: https://neuro.fedoraproject.org
.. _Fedora: https://getfedora.org
